Jay Gatsby’s wealth cannot buy him Daisy because money can create an impressive setting, but it cannot restore the past or guarantee another person’s love. In Chapter 5 of *The Great Gatsby*, Gatsby uses his mansion, clothes, and possessions to impress Daisy, but his nervous behavior reveals that his wealth has not given him emotional security. Before Daisy arrives, he is so anxious that he nearly knocks over Nick’s clock, symbolizing his desperate attempt to control and recover the past. Gatsby has built his entire identity around the dream of reuniting with Daisy, yet their relationship cannot simply return to the way it was before World War I.

Gatsby’s wealth is most obvious when Daisy visits his mansion. He shows her his expensive shirts, which are “such beautiful shirts” that she begins to cry. Her tears seem connected to the luxury Gatsby can now provide, but they also suggest regret over the life they did not have together. Gatsby became rich partly to prove himself worthy of Daisy, but his possessions cannot erase the five years that have passed. Daisy is now married to Tom Buchanan and has a daughter, Pammy, while Gatsby has created an idealized version of Daisy in his imagination. Even Gatsby admits that he expects too much when he says, “Can’t repeat the past? Why of course you can!” His statement shows that his dream is based on fantasy rather than reality.

The strongest evidence that wealth cannot buy Daisy is the green light at the end of her dock. Gatsby once looked at it as a symbol of hope and desire, but when Daisy comes to his house, the light loses its magical meaning because she is no longer an unreachable dream. His money can bring Daisy into the room, but it cannot make her become the perfect woman he has imagined. Nick observes that Gatsby’s dream seems to have “passed” beyond Daisy herself. Gatsby’s fortune can purchase a mansion, luxury clothes, and an opportunity to meet Daisy again, but it cannot purchase time, erase her marriage, or force her to share his idealized love.、】【
